# Automated-street-lighting-system
Nowadays,human has become too busy, and is unable to find time to switch the lights wherever not necessary.The present system is like the lights will be switched on in the evening before the sun sets and they are switched off the next day morning after there is sufficient light on the outside. But the actual timing for these lights to be switched on are when there is absolute darkness. With this, the power will be wasted up to some extent. Manual management is liable to errors and ends up in energy wastages and manually dimming throughout time of day is unworkable.
The energy consumption in entire world is increasing at the fastest rates due to population growth and economic development and the availability of energy sources remains woefully constrained. Resource augmentation and growth in energy supply has not kept pace with increasing demand and, therefore, continues to face serious energy shortages. Streetlights are an integral part of any developing locality. They are present on all major road-ways and in the suburbs too. Every day, streetlights are powered from sunset to sunrise at full strength, even when there is no one around. On a global scale, millions of dollars are spent each day on these street lights to provide the required electrical energy. The maintenance and replacement costs of conventional incandescent bulbs are immense. They consume a lot of electric power to function and their heat emissions are also quite high. All of this contributes to greater demand of electricity production and consequently, more carbon dioxide emissions from power houses. So, along with unnecessary light pollution, this practice causes damage to our planet too.
The streetlight automated system is a cost effective and the safest way to reduce power consumption. It helps us to get rid of today’s world problems of manual switching. If we use automated street light system and implement it in our society it will be helpful in saving large amount of electricity.
